The default scheduler in Kubernetes attempts to find the best node for your pod by going through a series of steps. The scheduler allows us to place pods on nodes to maximize uptime for the applications running in the cluster and to create a deployment with node affinity.

### Default scheduler steps to determine the right node for the pod:

1. Does the node have adequate hardware resources?
2. Is the node running out of resources?
3. Does the pod reques a specific node?
4. Does the node have a matching label?
5. If the pod requests a port, is it available?
6. If the pod requests a volume, can it be mounted?
7. Does the pod tolerate the taints of the node?
8. Does the pod specify node or pod affinity?

If more than one nodes pass all these steps, the scheduler will deploy the pods using round-robin.

* Node affinity:
  When using node affinity, you define a weight for each affinity definition and it will prioritize the ones with the highest weight but it will still have into account the lower ones.

### Hands-on

* Label node 1 as being located in availability zone 1

    `kubectl label node chadcrowell1c.mylabserver.com availability-zone=zone1`

* Label node 2 as being located in availability zone 2

    `kubectl label node chadcrowell2c.mylabserver.com availability-zone=zone2`

* Label node 1 as dedicated infrastructure

    `kubectl label node chadcrowell1c.mylabserver.com share-type=dedicated`

* Label node 2 as shared infrastructure

    `kubectl label node chadcrowell2c.mylabserver.com share-type=shared`

* Here is the YAML for the deployment to include the node affinity rules

```
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: pref
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: pref
  replicas: 5
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: pref
    spec:
      affinity:
        nodeAffinity:
          preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
          - weight: 80
            preference:
              matchExpressions:
              - key: availability-zone
                operator: In
                values:
                - zone1
          - weight: 20
            preference:
              matchExpressions:
              - key: share-type
                operator: In
                values:
                - dedicated
      containers:
      - args:
        - sleep
        - "99999"
        image: busybox
        name: main
```
* Create the deployment

    `kubectl create -f pref-deployment.yaml`

* View the deployment

    `kubectl get deployments`

* View which pods landed on which nodes

    `kubectl get pods -o wide`